TIP0001:
GN1to0 Freeware
This free software gives you possibility to convert a MIDI file from type 1 into type 0 and reverse.
The software introduces powerful facilities of Shareware GNMIDI for Windows without obligation to try or purchase the Shareware demo.
If you are interested you may try the Shareware demo without costs for some days.
You find newest GNMIDI Shareware demo at http://www.gnmidi.com
After free test period expires you would need to register the software and pay a registration fee to use the GNMIDI software in future (current price is listed at GNMIDI homepage).

TIP0002:
MIDI format 1 to 0 conversion
This function is enabled in this freeware. Some MIDI devices and MIDI programs only can use format 0 files.
With Shareware products GNMIDFMT and GNMIDI you can do this task more comfortably, they allow to convert more files at once. 

TIP0003:
GNMIDFMT Shareware
Shareware GNMIDFMT is very cheap; it can convert many selected files in a folder at once and can check file format validity.

TIP0004:
GNMIDI - MIDI tools for Windows
Shareware GNMIDI is not very expensive for the large number of available MIDI operations that it contains.
GNMIDI can comfortably convert all MIDI files with in a folder tree to format 0 at once.
You get descriptions to many GNMIDI operations in integrated help of this program (press key F1) or use it directly with GNMIDI demo.

TIP0005:
GNMIDI checks and repairs MIDI files
GNMIDI Shareware can check your whole MIDI archive to detect invalid files and can even repair some corrupt MIDI files.

TIP0006:
GNMIDI creates a smooth volume fade
With GNMIDI Shareware one can simply add a volume fade-in or fade-out to a MIDI file. 

TIP0007:
GNMIDI combines several MIDI files to a medley
With GNMIDI shareware one can connect MIDI files to one song.

TIP0008:
GNMIDI changes song volume
With GNMIDI Shareware one can adjust volume and note velocities or set volume to a common level.

TIP0009:
GNMIDI copies a part from a MIDI song 
With GNMIDI Shareware one can copy wanted range of an existing song into a new MIDI file.
That is necessary sometimes when a device only accepts smaller files or songs with limited duration (e.g. cell phone).

TIP0010:
GNMIDI converts between different popular lyric formats
With GNMIDI Shareware one can convert song text inside MIDI file into a different lyric format, which can be displayed on a keyboard display or used with other software.
It supports very popular formats like .kar or tune1000 and also some formats used by certain devices or manufacturers.

TIP0011:
GNMIDI compresses your MIDI files
With GNMIDI one can store MIDI files very compact (files can be compressed up to 15% smaller) without changing the musical content of the songs.

TIP0012:
GNMIDI transposes your MIDI songs
With GNMIDI Shareware one can transpose MIDI songs to song key used by other band members to own voice or to key used in a printed score sheet.

TIP0013:
GNMIDI renumbers your MIDI file channels
With GNMIDI Shareware one can exchange channel numbers and sort tracks in MIDI file.
That is necessary for devices with limited note polyphony, since when the limit is reached the player needs to ignore some channels or tracks.

TIP0014:
GNMIDI tries to guess chords from your MIDI songs
With GNMIDI Shareware one can let the software guess chords and insert them synchronized in MIDI song. Some devices can display the chord names together with song text on a display.

TIP0015:
GNMIDI splits tracks by drums, sounds or left/right piano hands
With GNMIDI Shareware one can split song tracks by different methods.

TIP0016:
GNMIDI replaces notes according to a translation table
GNMIDI Shareware can translate notes. That can be used to modify drum instruments in a song (each note in channel 10 is other drum).

TIP0017:
GNMIDI displays copyright
GNMIDI Shareware can read copyright information from MIDI songs and display them.
It can add a copyright notice to own MIDI songs and insert hidden copyright text.

TIP0018:
GNMIDI mutes melody in song
GNMIDI Shareware can mute channels and tracks of a MIDI song in different ways. 
That is often used for karaoke purpose, where MIDI songs are used for accompaniment to karaoke singers.
Musicians enjoy turning off melody of a known MIDI song and play the melody self on their instrument (half playback).

TIP0019:
GNMIDI changes tempo and calculates tempo of a song
GNMIDI Shareware contains several functions to display tempo or modify tempo.
With the BPM tempo measuring operation you only need to click a button with the rhythm (beat) of the current playing music (e.g. CD, radio) and GNMIDI delivers estimated tempo in beats/min.

TIP0020:
Look into deepest internal secrets of a MIDI file
GNMIDI MIDI to ASCII text conversion allows viewing the internals of a MIDI file. User may modify this text in a text editor and GNMIDI converts it back to a MIDI file.

TIP0021:
Hours of entertainment with MIDI music
Create your own MIDI archive with your MIDI files in a directory folder on your harddisk.
GNMIDI entertainment operation plays MIDI files from your archive in random order sequentially.

TIP0022:
GNMIDI records MIDI songs
GNMIDI Shareware contains a MIDI recorder to record MIDI song data from your MIDI keyboard (via MIDI cable) and stores the song into MIDI file.

TIP0023:
GNMIDI creates ring tones for cell phones
GNMIDI Shareware converts MIDI melody into RTTTL ring tones and reverse.

TIP0024:
Batch conversion
GNMIDI contains some operations that can be applied in one operation to all files in a folder tree.
Among them you also find the comfortable format 1 to 0 batch conversion and checking validity of all MIDI files in your archive.

TIP0025:
Sysex dump transfer
GNMIDI Shareware receives and sends Sysex data through MIDI cable between computer and keyboard.
This can be used to transfer and store current settings or song data.

TIP0026:
Synchronize song text with GNMIDI (Karaoke text editor)
GNMIDI contains a karaoke editor to enter and synchronize song text syllables to melody notes.

TIP0027:
Synchronize song lines during playing (Synchronization editor)
Synchronization of text lines works very quick and easy with GNMIDI synchronization editor: 
While song plays in this editor press a key at the time when next line should be sung. 
GNMIDI stores the lines and synchronized times into the MIDI song.


TIP0028:
Languages
GNMIDI software is available in languages English and German. 

TIP0029:
Questions about software or registration
You can reach us by email at info@gnmidi.com if you have questions.

TIP0030:
GNMIDI is not finished yet
GNMIDI Shareware is not a still project, updated versions are available several times per year.
Registered GNMIDI users don't need to purchase upgrades. GNMIDI registration is valid for all upgrade versions till 2.99
